DOC-2449-Added Query Profiling Page (#278)
tigergraph/gsql-docs: modules/querying/pages/query-optimizer/query-profiling.adoc

= Query Profiling
:toclevels: 1
:description: Query Profiling provides data to analyze the details of a query execution.

> This page provides an overview of query profiling in TigerGraph, a feature introduced in version 4.2.0. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page provides an overview of query profiling in TigerGraph, a feature introduced in version 4.2. 
```
If a feature is introduced in the initial Feature Release (Preview), we should not mention the ".0". We only want to use the 3rd number when we have to.

You can use query profiling to gain visibility into execution times, memory usage, and the number of vertices and edges accessed during query processing.

== Scope

=== Query Syntax

This feature applies only to GSQL syntax and is not supported for OpenCypher syntax at this time.

=== Query Mode

Query profiling is supported for the following types of queries:

* Installed *DISTRIBUTED* user-defined queries
* Installed *NON-DISTRIBUTED* user-defined queries, if installed with the `-SINGLE` flag (e.g., `INSTALL QUERY -SINGLE q1`)
* Three built-in endpoints:
** `/kstep_expansion`
** `/allpaths`
** `/searchvertex`

For these queries, profiling data will include more detailed information about memory usage and the overall query execution, as explained in the xref:{page-component-version}@gsql-ref:querying:query-optimizer/query-profiling.adoc[Profiling Data Explanation] section below.

== Prerequisite

To enable query profiling, users must have the READ QUERY or OWNERSHIP privileges for the query being executed. 
If RESTPP authentication is enabled, users will need to ensure they have the appropriate privileges. 

> Otherwise, they may encounter an error message like this:

Reviewer: I think this error message is not unique to this feature.  We may want to consider moving this to the RESTPP authentication page instead.

[source,json]
----
{
  "version": {
    "edition": "enterprise",
    "api": "v2",
    "schema": 1
  },
  "error": true,
  "message": "Insufficient permissions to enable profiling on this request.",
  "required_privileges": {
    "Query Privileges": {
      "GRAPHS": {
        "SocialNet": {
          "QUERIES": {
            "qTest": {
              "QUERY-LEVEL Privileges": [
                "READ [MISSING]"
              ]
            }
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "code": "REST-15001"
}
----

== How to Activate Profiling

> In TigerGraph version 4.2.0, profiling can be activated using the *PROFILE* flag. Currently, only one profiling mode, `BASIC`, is available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Activate profiling by setting a profiling mode. Currently, only one profiling mode, `BASIC`, is available.
```
I'm thinking about whether "activate" is the best word, or "enable".  It is chosen for each individual query when you run it. I.e., it does not "stay" on for a 2nd query.
